- [Frank] So we've spent quite a bit of time
talking about design patterns,
and you may wonder what's next.
But before we get there,
I want to recap on what we've done in this course.
So we started by learning about
design patterns in general and the Gang of Four.
We then focused on the major patterns
in the Spring Framework.
Those that the framework itself uses
in its day-to-day operations.
We've learned about the patterns
and how to implement the ones
that are most commonly used
with and outside the framework.
The ones that you most likely are going to encounter
are the ones that we talked about
how to implement.
And probably most importantly,
we discussed why to use each of these design patterns,
because you can always go look up the implementation,
but knowing why to use them is 90% of the battle.
Which leads me to where we should go next.
We need to study the patterns,
especially the more common ones.
The ones that I presented
are a subset of the most common patterns,
and I highly encourage you to look at the ones
that I presented implementations for
and study them deeply.
One great way to do that
is use the concept of kata exercises,
to use them where you're implementing them
several times over
until you commit them to memory.
Learn to use them when writing code in Spring.
After all, Spring is a great framework,
and one that lends it self to
writing good object-oriented software
which includes the use of object-oriented
design patterns.
And really what you want to be doing
is focus on reducing the complexity
in your code base by using these patterns.
Now, I've alluded to this,
but one thing to note is we've only touched the surface.
I've only introduced you
to a small subset of design patterns,
and those specifically that are very easy to determine
are used within the framework.
There are many more patterns in a framework
and definitely a lot more outside the framework.
I encourage you to study
as many of these that you can that are outside the list.
The more design patterns you have familiarity with,
the better armed you're going to be
when a problem arises
that may have already been solved by somebody else.
Learn the most common ones in your areas of focus,
and they do exist everywhere.
If you're an ETL developer,
learn the patterns for ETL development.
If you're a distributed systems programmer,
learn the ones around domain-driven design
and asynchronous messaging
and microservices architectures.
And I'm going to reiterate this once again,
kata exercises are a great way
to commit things to memory.
You do the same implementations
over and over again, eventually they stick,
and you can use them
without having to go look them up.
And finally, before I let you go,
I want to say thank you.
Your time is very valuable,
and the fact that you would spend it
watching this course with me
actually means a lot to me,
and as such, I want you to know
that my commitment to you doesn't end
when you're done watching this course.
Often, I reach out to people who ask me questions
through the use of GitHub or LinkedIn Learning
or the many other ways you can get a hold of me,
and I provided you some great contact points
where you can look at what I've done,
you can look at the questions I've answered,
you can look at who I'm following on Twitter
and some of the things that I talk about
with software development.
So once again, thank you for your time,
and get started with design patterns,
especially in the Spring framework.